# nginx-minder
Watch nginx logs and periodically report status code counts in statsd format.

## About

The `nginx-minder` program is distributed with a Dockerfile and configuraiton
files to run it to monitor the logs from a group of Nginx instances deployed in
a high-availability Kubernetes cluster.

## What does it do?

On each nginx instance, the local access log file at `/var/log/nginx/access.log`
is followed, and the HTTP status code of each route accessed on the server is
noted. For any routes that produce status codes in the `500-599` range
(fatal error codes), the route that produced the code is also noted. Every 5
seconds, the total count of `200`, `300`, `400`, `500` status codes is printed
in `statsd`-compatible log messages, followed by a list of routes that produced
`500` status codes with the code count.

## Deployment

1. Build & push                                                                      
                                                                                     
    The containers are built and stored in [Docker Hub](http://hub.docker.com/branning/nginx-minder).
    In order to build the containers, you can run `make`. In order to push new       
    containers that will be pulled by the [Kubernetes deployment](k8s/nginx-minder-deployment.yaml),
    you must first login to the Docker Hub repository:                               
                                                                                     
        docker login --username=branning                                             
                                                                                     
    After logging in, you can push new containers with `make push`.                  
                                                                                     
2. Create pods and deployment                                                        
                                                                                     
    First you'll need a Kubernetes cluster that you can control using `kubectl`. 
    Use [minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube) for local testing and 
    deployments. Once installed, run `minikube start` to use the default             
    virtualbox provisioner, or  `minikube start --vm-driver=xhyve` for a             
    MacOS system with the `xhyve` virtualization layer installed.                    
                                                                                     
    To deploy and create pods, run `kubectl create -f k8s/nginx-minder-deployment.yaml`.
    It will take perhaps 20-60 seconds to pull the 2 containers from Docker Hub. 
    To check the pod status, run `kubectl get pods`. When you see `2/2` pods are 
    ready, you can check the output of the `nginx-minder` process by calling         
    `kubectl logs <pod-name> nginx-minder`. The pod names are automatically          
    generated by the deployment, you can see them in the output of `kubectl get  
    pods`.       

3. Create service

    To create a service across the pods, you must run

        kubectl expose deployment nginx-minder-deployment --port=80 --type=LoadBalancer

